so aisel what made you get into
political science when you started your
undergrad whoa
nobody ever asked me this question
nobody it's really weird for your fight
when you ask this question for years and
years and years nobody ever asked me
that I cannot remember the last time
somebody asked me that question which is
a strange thing when I first enrolled in
university so obviously coming out of
high school I wanted to study the
philosophy of poverty and I thought I
would find that in the department of
economics and you notice about me I
still have a very deep kind of
sentimental affinity for economics I
still care about economics I still read
about accounts if you search this
channeling fine just a few videos about
economics but they're quite passionate
even I'm talking about like the debt to
GDP ratio of China and economics in
Canada I still remain kind of at a high
level of literacy about that sounds like
a moment not so good London School of
Economics that is true that is true so
among the disadvantages of living with
me microbots no well I'm in the shower
listening to lectures on economics from
a famous University anymore right so I
still do care about economics and I in a
sense I'm still passionate about what
economics ought to be we doesn't mean in
a perfect world would it be and you know
I remember saying this to to a co-worker
when I got to university of toronto
Department of Economics I said for the
first time I understand who it is that
buys roofin all so rupin all a Kay a
roofie these guys I was in the classroom
with they were not there for the
philosophy of poverty and the classes
that were being taught a lot of the time
the professor or the the TA
didn't even speak English it was someone
fresh off the boat from Hong Kong
speaking in a thick Chinese accent and
like sometimes 50% of the students would
be Chinese the first language I was like
just just cut out the middleman just
stop pretending to speak English the
level of English being spoken it was so
low Bible with the professor and the
students and I mean the other the other
white guys who were there as I say like
the
were guys who were into making money
fast and you know I could imagine them
being in the market for a date rape
drugs because for the best I didn't
enunciate that too clearly maybe this
video will get blacklisted by YouTube if
the computer transliteration and I can't
can't pick up those words I digress
I was shocked at the low intellectual
caliber and frankly low ethical caliber
of everything what was being taught and
who was learning it and what the whole
discipline was about from that
University Department's perspective I
should also say we had like 300 students
in the classroom it's just tear apart
like literally theater seating you know
300 students at once the mass education
and I went into with a bunch of other
kind of disadvantages in terms of my own
family background I I grew up with zero
math education what my parents said to
me I mean other kids I'm not complaining
but most of mathematic learning was
parents helping up the kids and you know
even if the teacher tested you on math
most advanced math required you to sit
down with your parents get some kind of
guidance and my parents always said to
me just fail and I did before my father
died I did bring that up with new toxin
but I said look you know this had a huge
impact on my life that you told me just
fail and other times he told me to just
my way through it and so on but
if anything I had a really negative
influence from my parents in terms
groans man now I'm not naturally bad at
math I've actually the number of jobs
that forced me to do math like eight
hours a day where he's not really
intensively and where I learned that was
naturally better at math than my
coworkers so I don't have fun with that
but I had a lot of disadvantage that way
that was not the crucial reason though
for leaving economics so economics was
not the philosophy of poverty and then I
had a brief but intensity raid where I
had to choose some totally different
discipline at my university to replace
what my interests were that drew me into
economics and long story short end of
political science I now know that was
really the wrong decision for the right
reasons I probably would have been
better off Saigon into Asian Studies and
Asian languages at the time which
already was a major interest one of the
big turning points for you actually was
visiting South Korea as a very young man
and South Korea all the issues that are
in the air their wealth and poverty and
development post-war crisis post-war
reconstruction communism and anti
communism and democracy they're all
these really heavy issues in the air in
Korea and I forget when I was in Korea
was that maybe 14 was that maybe 15 and
that really made a big impression at
that time I remember telling people in
Korea yeah I want to study economics I
want to study economics of Korea you
know to me I thought was a fascinating
example of emerging from poverty and
those those extreme political
circumstance
I already did care my mom remind me of
this recently or did you care a lot
about First Nations - I could tell some
funny if they don't stop but for my Ma's
reserve she said from childhood I was
always ranting about First Nations and
their land roads First Nations are
polite word in Canada for what you call
American Indians native people
indigenous people etc so it's everything
could be different if I take another
direction but I guess you could say
political science also this is what's so
enticing about it seems to offer you a
way to make a positive difference in all
those things or whatever it is you have
to care about right it's politics
politics is everything and nothing right
it's it's it seems so full of promise
and yeah the the Department I ended up
in and the career path I ended up on her
the lack thereof it really was the wrong
decision for me in so many ways I've
said this many times on YouTube you know
a lot of upsetting and sad things that
in my life I have a divorce I have a
four-year-old daughter all those other
things but really the poor quality of
university education in Canada it really
is like the the crisis in my life I
can't get over because I'm still
burdened with it I'm still coping with
it I'm still working hard to find it
other roads and yeah I you know guys if
any of you feel like I'm rubbing it in
your face that I have a diploma in
political science I really feel like I
got a good education
despite that program and not because of
it and there was a real sense of my part
of these courses aren't teaching us
anything that matters I asked to go to
the library independently and teach
myself everything
Mather's I really felt it was a big
emotional burden I felt this is my one
chance to get an education I don't get
another chance which is true for most of
us and whatever is wrong with it
there's no point playing the blame game
I've got to take it all on my own
shoulders I've gotta learn to be an
autodidact evidence do it for myself the
one one example of that which you can
relate Jesus she's an English literature
major English major so the whole
including linguistics not stuff too but
if she is an English major but I went to
a class so much the first class for a
specialized course a 400 level course
and advanced reading course just on
Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes which I had
already read so this is a classic of
English literature as well as politics
and everything else and the woman
teaching the class I found out from
other professors tell me she only was
given that assignment because of who her
boyfriend was literally she was the
girlfriend of another professor in the
Department of this kind of thing and it
became very obvious very fast in her
first lecture that she had never read
the book she was teaching she had never
read it once and she asked the students
Oh so who's already read the book
because we're just going to do an open
reading we're going to go with color
blank reading or something Fred his term
like you know where he does so still
freaking second I put my hands already
minute and she said sliders oh well
maybe you want to drop the class he's
going with the book because look what
we're going to be reading this at such a
low level that something's already read
the book wouldn't have any interest and
she started in this incredibly Jewish
okay so for the first class let's just
talk about the cover illustration this
is the cover from you know the original
not the modern cover the cover was tall
was fish so you know so what do you see
I'm like what do you think what do you
feel bit early so this is 400 level
political science class and it's
literally asking what are your feelings
and your emotions about this picture and
she's like yeah like you notice like
over here there were cannons and like
over here there were guns like and spoke
about book of the war alright this is
pretty deep and so she I waited I didn't
make any comment and she ended her
Hirschfeld which is totally spontaneous
eliciting emotional reaction students
and I said aren't you even going to
mention who
a portrait of it's a portrait of an
historical figure and she said what do
you mean I said it's Cromwell and she
said who she had never heard this is a
professor of science he said she had
never heard of Oliver Cromwell she had
never read the book she was totally
unaware of the historical and political
context of it so this I'm just being
honest you I was less eloquent in an
emotional situation at that age than I
am now and today I'd be able to make
some dry witty remarks and I'd be able
to cope with institutionally it was
emotionally devastating me we tired with
us like when you're younger I think you
react to situations like that with a
feeling of this can't possibly be real
like this must be a bad dream it's not
possible that this person is so
incompetent is so ignorant it's so
terrible like you know you can't really
mean what you just said you have these
kind of mixed feelings of disappointment
and outrage you want to have you today I
mean I'd have some kind of witty laconic
reflectiveness
this kind of thing that did impact me
moshe i did drop the course but you know
why can't I take a course I mean this is
being stirred this isn't Cambodia right
this isn't like I'm at university or
expecting them to have a great course on
Cambodia so I'm expecting that a great
course on the kree or the Egypt or the
Algonquin something really matters me
personally this is completely mainstream
British beautiful tradition of both
literature and and in politics and you
can't even do that and this is the level
of confidence in Commons but that was
just another one of those moments where
I walked out I was always emotionally
deficit was really emotionally impacted
by it I left during the break I didn't
stay for the whole class and I you know
just sat there shaking my head thinking
it's all on me I have to go alone to the
library if I'm going to read Plato and
Aristotle I am going to read Plato an
hour so nobody's going to give me a
grade for it nobody's going to teach you
to mean it was explained to me
everything whatever it was in the whole
history of political science I had to
figure out what was important and this
was before Wikipedia matter of fact you
know I had to figure out what was
important and I'd teach it to my
to myself with you know and again at
that time I'll just be honestly guys
again you guys know I was raised in an
extremely left-wing family and I did not
turn out left-wing I ended up
questioning that in a sense the only in
the same way that someone is raised
Christian their main sense of the world
maybe as a whole where God used to be in
a lot of ways my only sense of what was
important in politics as a whole where
communist needs to be I knew communism
was a failure I knew these into which
Marxism fail I'd already read Karl Marx
it read all that stuff but it wasn't
like I had any kind of guidebook or map
to really start teaching myself
political philosophy in political
science but I just it was this horrible
sinking feeling of if I'm going to get
any value out of this education it is
all on me I'm out here all alone and you
know obviously nobody else cares about
Korea nobody else cares about Cambodia
or First Nations or those kinds of
things there's me but even nobody cares
will give me a classical education in
political science in the foundations
whether you want to see done in terms of
Aristotle or Hobbes or or even the US
Constitution all that stuff I've read
from itself as ridiculous as as that may
sound really getting a sense of the
basics yeah I can really tell that when
you talk about history and politics and
you didn't just learn it from a course
that you took yeah same with all Asian
Studies like about all the countries in
this region like earlier you were just
talking about Myanmar like you know you
didn't learn that in a class yeah you
definitely like one out somehow yeah
yeah yeah when did a lot of Asian
countries right right I've met a few
other people with similar spirit but I
mean I think I think it's funny choose
it I chose to be an autodidact because I
had no other choice but you can see the
way in which was rigorous was that each
of those places was asking the same
questions so we will be worried we're
talking with history of Myanmar but what
about slavery but what about agriculture
what about Cupra where did the food come
from how did the economy work when I was
first studying the history of Thailand
or Myanmar or India or Sri micro any of
these places I never was looking at it
with rose-colored glasses like Oh
is paradise or this is the East in
contrast to the West or this is the
oppressed South in Congress of the
global north or socialism and Congress
to capitalism in all of those places I
was basically looking with the same
rigorous eye to figure out how society
works so that that was the product of
not having a course I think very often
when you're given a course by a
professor it exactly has that kind of
propaganda value of telling you like for
example this is why Japan is the most
wonderful country I've been to classes
like that and you know you gotta say
pardon me you know yeah yeah it's more
meaningful to the way that you describe
these things I can tell it wasn't like
from a test like you actually care about
how things works and at the time like
yes you have a cold
contact whereas for a test you would
just be memorizing the effect and like
you really just know like these details
that I don't think you would have
learned from right yeah it's what does
what does what opinion does the
professor want to cure back on the final
test but look I mean guys long story
short that is also I ended up learning
Chinese though which I do in which I
never want to learn I still don't want
to learn was that all this learning I
did though ultimately is not bankable in
Canada there's no way I can cash in on
and get a masters degree a PhD or a
career or any kind of you know it
doesn't open any doors for me put it
that way so ultimately the decision was
to conform to go back to University in
Canada and to just try to study
something mainstream that you know the
system could could give me credit for
and it seemed like the best option at
the time was Chinese so we'll see and
when I do and when I sit down and talk
to professor's they often recognize even
if they're specialists in China that I
have a kind of expertise that they don't
have
I have expertise in areas they don't
have and so on and those are indeed the
areas that at least Canadian academia
doesn't reward so she accepts me with
all these ludicrous contradictions
[Music]